So, far this week we've learned
how to detect features,
compute their
descriptors, and perform
brute force matching
using distance functions.
We're almost ready to start
applying feature detection,
description, and matching to
self-driving car perception.
In this video, we will
explore the issue of
ambiguous matches and
how to make our matches
more robust to matching
errors caused by
similar feature
descriptors through
the distance ratio formulation.
But first, let's review
the two feature matching cases
we discussed in the last lesson.
In the first case, we have
a useful feature descriptor that
clearly gives a small distance
to the feature f2 and
a large distance to other
features in the second image.
In this case we can
successfully identify
the correct match to the
feature f1 and image one.
Our brute force matching
algorithm works well with
this descriptor and as seamlessly
capable of finding
the right match in image two.
In the second case,
the feature f1 in image one
does not have a match
at all in image two.
We modified our brute force
matching algorithm with
a threshold delta to
eliminate incorrect
matches in this case.
Since both features
and image two have
a distance greater than the
distance threshold Delta,
the brute force matcher
rejects both the features f2
and f3 as potential matches
and no match is returned.
But, let us consider
a third case,
once again we are trying to match
feature f1 in image one to
a corresponding
feature in image two.
With the feature
vectors presented here,
feature f1 gets an SSD value of
nine with feature
two in image two.
We test another feature f3,
and we also get an SSD of nine.
Both of these features
have an SSD less
than Delta which was
20 in this case,
and as such are valid matches.
So what should we do?
We refer to feature fi in case
three as a feature with
ambiguous matches.
An elegant solution
to this problem was
proposed by David Lowe in 1999.
The solution goes as follows.
First, we compute
the distance between
feature fi in image one
and all the features
fj in image two,
similar to our
previous algorithm,
we choose the feature
fc in image two with
the minimum distance
to feature fi in
image of one as
our closest match.
We then proceed to get
feature fs the feature in
image two with
the second closest distance
to the feature fi.
Finally, we find how much
nearer our closest match
fc is over our second
closest match fs.
This can be done through
the distance ratio.
The distance ratio can be
defined as the distance
computed between
feature fi in image one and
fc the closest match
in image two.
Over the distance computed
between feature fi and fs,
the second closest match
in image two.
If the distance ratio
is close to one,
it means that according to
our descriptor and
distance function,
fi matches both fs and fc.
In this case, we
don't want to use
this match in
our processing later on,
as it clearly is not known
to our matcher which
location in image two
corresponds to the
feature in image one.
Let us update our brute
force matcher algorithm
with the distance
ratio formulation.
The updates replace
the distance with
the ratio of distance as
our metric to keep matches.
We usually set
the distance ratio threshold
which we'll refer to as
row somewhere around 0.5,
which means that we require
our best match to
be at least twice
as close as our second best match
to our initial
features descriptor.
Revisiting case three,
we can see that using
the distance ratio and
a corresponding threshold
row set to 0.5,
we discard our ambiguous matches
and retain the good ones.
In this video, you've learned
what ambiguous matches are,
and how to handle
these ambiguous matches
through the distance
ratio formulation.
Unfortunately, even with the
distance ratio formulation,
as much as 50 percent
of typical matches can
still be wrong when using
modern descriptors.
This is because,
repetitive patterns in
images and small variations
in pixel values,
are often sufficient to
confuse the matching process.
We call these erroneous
matches outliers.
For our next lesson,
I will describe a method to
account for and
eliminate outliers
before using are matched features
for further perception tasks.